<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Anne’s narrative resumed)</p>
			</header>
			<p>It is most undignified for a heroine to be seasick. In books the more it rolls and tosses, the better she likes it. When everybody else is ill, she alone staggers along the deck, braving the elements and positively rejoicing in the storm. I regret to say that at the first roll the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Kilmorden</i> gave, I turned pale and hastened below. A sympathetic stewardess received me. She suggested dry toast and ginger ale.</p>
			<p>I remained groaning in my cabin for three days. Forgotten was my quest. I had no longer any interest in solving mysteries. I was a totally different Anne to the one who had rushed back to the South Kensington square so jubilantly from the shipping office.</p>
			<p>I smile now as I remember my abrupt entry into the drawing room. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Flemming was alone there. She turned her head as I entered.</p>
			<p>“Is that you, Anne, my dear? There is something I want to talk over with you.”</p>
			<p>“Yes?” I said, curbing my impatience.</p>
			<p>“Miss Emery is leaving me.” Miss Emery was the governness. “As you have not yet succeeded in finding anything, I wondered if you would care⁠—it would be so nice if you remained with us altogether?”</p>
			<p>I was touched. She didn’t want me, I knew. It was sheer Christian charity that prompted the offer. I felt remorseful for my secret criticism of her. Getting up, I ran impulsively across the room and flung my arms round her neck.</p>
			<p>“You’re a dear,” I said. “A dear, a dear, a dear! And thank you ever so much. But it’s all right, I’m off to South Africa on Saturday.”</p>
			<p>My abrupt onslaught had startled the good lady. She was not used to sudden demonstrations of affection. My words startled her still more.</p>
			<p>“To South Africa? My dear Anne. We would have to look into anything of that kind very carefully.”</p>
			<p>That was the last thing I wanted. I explained that I had already taken my passage, and that upon arrival I proposed to take up the duties of a parlourmaid. It was the only thing I could think of on the spur of the moment. There was, I said, a great demand for parlourmaids in South Africa. I assured her that I was equal to taking care of myself, and in the end, with a sigh of relief at getting me off her hands, she accepted the project without further query. At parting, she slipped an envelope into my hand. Inside it I found five new crisp five-pound notes and the words: “I hope you will not be offended and will accept this with my love.” She was a very good, kind woman. I could not have continued to live in the same house with her, but I did recognize her intrinsic worth.</p>
			<p>So here I was, with twenty-five pounds in my pocket, facing the world and pursuing my adventure.</p>
			<p>It was on the fourth day that the stewardess finally urged me up on deck. Under the impression that I should die quicker below, I had steadfastly refused to leave my bunk. She now tempted me with the advent of Madeira. Hope rose in my breast. I could leave the boat and go ashore and be a parlourmaid there. Anything for dry land.</p>
			<p>Muffled in coats and rugs, and weak as a kitten on my legs, I was hauled up and deposited, an inert mass, on a deck chair. I lay there with my eyes closed, hating life. The purser, a fair-haired young man, with a round boyish face, came and sat down beside me.</p>
			<p>“Hullo! Feeling rather sorry for yourself, eh?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” I replied, hating him.</p>
			<p>“Ah, you won’t know yourself in another day or two. We’ve had rather a nasty dusting in the bay, but there’s smooth weather ahead. I’ll be taking you on at quoits tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>I did not reply.</p>
			<p>“Think you’ll never recover, eh? But I’ve seen people much worse than you, and two days later they were the life and soul of the ship. You’ll be the same.”</p>
			<p>I did not feel sufficiently pugnacious to tell him outright that he was a liar. I endeavoured to convey it by a glance. He chatted pleasantly for a few minutes more, then he mercifully departed. People passed and repassed, brisk couples “exercising,” curvetting children, laughing young people. A few other pallid sufferers lay, like myself, in deck chairs.</p>
			<p>The air was pleasant, crisp, not too cold, and the sun was shining brightly. Insensibly, I felt a little cheered. I began to watch the people. One woman in particular attracted me. She was about thirty, of medium height and very fair with a round dimpled face and very blue eyes. Her clothes, though perfectly plain, had that indefinable air of “cut” about them which spoke of Paris. Also, in a pleasant but self-possessed way, she seemed to own the ship!</p>
			<p>Deck stewards ran to and fro obeying her commands. She had a special deck chair, and an apparently inexhaustible supply of cushions. She changed her mind three times as to where she would like it placed. Throughout everything she remained attractive and charming. She appeared to be one of those rare people in the world who know what they want, see that they get it, and manage to do so without being offensive. I decided that if I ever recovered⁠—but of course I shouldn’t⁠—it would amuse me to talk to her.</p>
			<p>We reached Madeira about midday. I was still too inert to move, but I enjoyed the picturesque-looking merchants who came on board and spread their merchandise about the decks. There were flowers too. I buried my nose in an enormous bunch of sweet wet violets and felt distinctly better. In fact, I thought I might just possibly last out the end of the voyage. When my stewardess spoke of the attractions of a little chicken broth, I only protested feebly. When it came I enjoyed it.</p>
			<p>My attractive woman had been ashore. She came back escorted by a tall, soldierly-looking man with dark hair and a bronzed face whom I had noticed striding up and down the deck earlier in the day. I put him down at once as one of the strong, silent men of Rhodesia. He was about forty, with a touch of greying hair at either temple, and was easily the best-looking man on board.</p>
			<p>When the stewardess brought me up an extra rug I asked her if she knew who my attractive woman was.</p>
			<p>“That’s a well-known society lady, the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clarence Blair. You must have read about her in the papers.”</p>
			<p>I nodded, looking at her with renewed interest. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair was very well known indeed as one of the smartest women of the day. I observed, with some amusement, that she was the centre of a good deal of attention. Several people essayed to scrape acquaintance with the pleasant informality that a boat allows. I admired the polite way that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair snubbed them. She appeared to have adopted the strong, silent man as her special cavalier, and he seemed duly sensible of the privilege accorded him.</p>
			<p>The following morning, to my surprise, after taking a few turns round the deck with her attentive companion, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair came to a halt by my chair.</p>
			<p>“Feeling better this morning?”</p>
			<p>I thanked her, and said I felt slightly more like a human being.</p>
			<p>“You did look ill yesterday. Colonel Race and I decided that we should have the excitement of a funeral at sea⁠—but you’ve disappointed us.”</p>
			<p>I laughed.</p>
			<p>“Being up in the air has done me good.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing like fresh air,” said Colonel Race, smiling.</p>
			<p>“Being shut up in those stuffy cabins would kill anyone,” declared <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair, dropping into a seat by my side and dismissing her companion with a little nod. “You’ve got an outside one, I hope?”</p>
			<p>I shook my head.</p>
			<p>“My dear girl! Why don’t you change? There’s plenty of room. A lot of people got off at Madeira, and the boat’s very empty. Talk to the purser about it. He’s a nice little boy⁠—he changed me into a beautiful cabin because I didn’t care for the one I’d got. You talk to him at lunchtime when you go down.”</p>
			<p>I shuddered.</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t move.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be silly. Come and take a walk now with me.”</p>
			<p>She dimpled at me encouragingly. I felt very weak on my legs at first, but as we walked briskly up and down I began to feel a brighter and better being.</p>
			<p>After a turn or two, Colonel Race joined us again.</p>
			<p>“You can see the Grand Peak of Tenerife from the other side.”</p>
			<p>“Can we? Can I get a photograph of it, do you think?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—but that won’t deter you from snapping off at it.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair laughed.</p>
			<p>“You are unkind. Some of my photographs are very good.”</p>
			<p>“About three percent effective, I should say.”</p>
			<p>We all went round to the other side of the deck. There glimmering white and snowy, enveloped in a delicate rose-coloured mist, rose the glistening pinnacle. I uttered an exclamation of delight. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair ran for her camera.</p>
			<p>Undeterred by Colonel Race’s sardonic comments, she snapped vigorously:</p>
			<p>“There, that’s the end of the roll. Oh,” her tone changed to one of chagrin, “I’ve had the thing at ‘bulb’ all the time.”</p>
			<p>“I always like to see a child with a new toy,” murmured the colonel.</p>
			<p>“How horrid you are⁠—but I’ve got another roll.”</p>
			<p>She produced it in triumph from the pocket of her sweater. A sudden roll of the boat upset her balance, and as she caught at the rail to steady herself the roll of films flashed over the side.</p>
			<p>“Oh!” cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair, comically dismayed. She leaned over. “Do you think they have gone overboard?”</p>
			<p>“No, you may have been fortunate enough to brain an unlucky steward in the deck below.”</p>
			<p>A small boy who had arrived unobserved a few paces to our rear blew a deafening blast on a bugle.</p>
			<p>“Lunch,” declared <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair ecstatically. “I’ve had nothing to eat since breakfast, except two cups of beef tea. Lunch, Miss Beddingfeld?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” I said waveringly. “Yes, I <em>do</em> feel rather hungry.”</p>
			<p>“Splendid. You’re sitting at the purser’s table, I know. Tackle him about the cabin.”</p>
			<p>I found my way down to the saloon, began to eat gingerly, and finished by consuming an enormous meal. My friend of yesterday congratulated me on my recovery. Everyone was changing cabins today, he told me, and he promised that my things should be moved to an outside one without delay.</p>
			<p>There were only four at our table, myself, a couple of elderly ladies, and a missionary who talked a lot about “our poor black brothers.”</p>
			<p>I looked round at the other tables. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blair was sitting at the captain’s table, Colonel Race next to her. On the other side of the captain was a distinguished-looking, grey-haired man. A good many people I had already noticed on deck, but there was one man who had not previously appeared. Had he done so, he could hardly have escaped my notice. He was tall and dark, and had such a peculiarly sinister type of countenance that I was quite startled. I asked the purser, with some curiosity, who he was.</p>
			<p>“That man? Oh, that’s Sir Eustace Pedler’s secretary. Been very seasick, poor chap, and not appeared before. Sir Eustace has got two secretaries with him, and the sea’s been too much for both of them. The other fellow hasn’t turned up yet. This man’s name is Pagett.”</p>
			<p>So Sir Eustace Pedler, the owner of the Mill House, was on board. Probably only a coincidence, and yet⁠—</p>
			<p>“That’s Sir Eustace,” my informant continued, “sitting next to the captain. Pompous old ass.”</p>
			<p>The more I studied the secretary’s face, the less I liked it. Its even pallor, the secretive, heavy-lidded eyes, the curiously flattened head⁠—it all gave me a feeling of distaste, of apprehension.</p>
			<p>Leaving the saloon at the same time as he did, I was close behind him as he went up on deck. He was speaking to Sir Eustace, and I overheard a fragment or two. “I’ll see about the cabin at once then, shall I? It’s impossible to work in yours, with all your trunks.”</p>
			<p>“My dear fellow,” Sir Eustace replied. “My cabin is intended (a) for me to sleep in, and (b) to attempt to dress in. I never had any intentions of allowing you to sprawl about the place making an infernal clicking with that typewriter of yours.”</p>
			<p>“That’s just what I say, Sir Eustace, we must have somewhere to work⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Here I parted company from them, and went below to see if my removal was in progress. I found my steward busy at the task.</p>
			<p>“Very nice cabin, miss. On D deck. <abbr>No.</abbr> 13.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no!” I cried. “<em>Not</em> 13.”</p>
			<p>Thirteen is the one thing I am superstitious about. It was a nice cabin too. I inspected it, wavered, but a foolish superstition prevailed. I appealed almost tearfully to the steward.</p>
			<p>“Isn’t there any other cabin I can have?”</p>
			<p>The steward reflected.</p>
			<p>“Well, there’s 17, just along on the starboard side. That was empty this morning, but I rather fancy it’s been allotted to someone. Still, as the gentleman’s things aren’t in yet, and as gentlemen aren’t anything like so superstitious as ladies, I dare say he wouldn’t mind changing.”</p>
			<p>I hailed the proposition gratefully, and the steward departed to obtain permission from the purser. He returned grinning.</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, miss. We can go along.”</p>
			<p>He led the way to 17. It was not quite as large as <abbr>no.</abbr> 13, but I found it eminently satisfactory.</p>
			<p>“I’ll fetch your things right away, miss,” said the steward.</p>
			<p>But at that moment, the man with the sinister face (as I had nicknamed him) appeared in the doorway.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me,” he said, “but this cabin is reserved for the use of Sir Eustace Pedler.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, sir,” explained the steward. “We’re fitting up <abbr>no.</abbr> 13 instead.”</p>
			<p>“No, it was <abbr>no.</abbr> 17 I was to have.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>No.</abbr> 13 is a better cabin, sir⁠—larger.”</p>
			<p>“I specially selected <abbr>no.</abbr> 17, and the purser said I could have it.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” I said coldly. “But <abbr>no.</abbr> 17 has been allotted to me.”</p>
			<p>“I can’t agree to that.”</p>
			<p>The steward put in his oar.</p>
			<p>“The other cabin’s just the same, only better.”</p>
			<p>“I want <abbr>no.</abbr> 17.”</p>
			<p>“What’s all this?” demanded a new voice. “Steward, put my things in here. This is my cabin.”</p>
			<p>It was my neighbor at lunch, the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Edward Chichester.</p>
			<p>“I beg your pardon,” I said. “It’s my cabin.”</p>
			<p>“It is allotted to Sir Eustace Pedler,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pagett.</p>
			<p>We were all getting rather heated.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry to have to dispute the matter,” said Chichester with a meek smile which failed to mask his determination to get his own way. Meek men are always obstinate, I have noticed.</p>
			<p>He edged himself sideways into the doorway.</p>
			<p>“You’re to have <abbr>no.</abbr> 28 on the port side,” said the steward. “A very good cabin, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid that I must insist. <abbr>No.</abbr> 17 was the cabin promised to me.”</p>
			<p>We had come to an impasse. Each one of us was determined not to give way. Strictly speaking, I, at any rate, might have retired from the contest and eased matters by offering to accept cabin 28. So long as I did not have 13 it was immaterial to me what other cabin I had. But my blood was up. I had not the least intention of being the first to give way. And I disliked Chichester. He had false teeth which clicked when he ate. Many men have been hated for less.</p>
			<p>We all said the same things over again. The steward assured us, even more strongly, that both the other cabins were better cabins. None of us paid any attention to him.</p>
			<p>Pagett began to lose his temper. Chichester kept his serenely. With an effort I also kept mine. And still none of us would give way an inch.</p>
			<p>A wink and a whispered word from the steward gave me my cue. I faded unobtrusively from the scene. I was lucky enough to encounter the purser almost immediately.</p>
			<p>“Oh, please,” I said, “you did say I could have cabin 17? And the others won’t go away. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chichester and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pagett. You <em>will</em> let me have it, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>I always say that there are no people like sailors for being nice to women. My little purser came to the scratch splendidly. He strode to the scene, informed the disputants that <abbr>no.</abbr> 17 was my cabin, they could have <abbr>nos.</abbr> 13 and 28 respectively or stay where they were⁠—whichever they chose.</p>
			<p>I permitted my eyes to tell him what a hero he was and then installed myself in my new domain. The encounter had done me worlds of good. The sea was smooth, the weather growing daily warmer. Seasickness was a thing of the past!</p>
			<p>I went up on deck and was initiated into the mysteries of deck quoits. I entered my name for various sports. Tea was served on deck, and I ate heartily. After tea, I played shovelboard with some pleasant young men. They were extraordinarily nice to me. I felt that life was satisfactory and delightful.</p>
			<p>The dressing bugle came as a surprise and I hurried to my new cabin. The stewardess was awaiting me with a troubled face.</p>
			<p>“There’s a terrible smell in your cabin, miss. What it is, I’m sure I can’t think, but I doubt if you’ll be able to sleep here. There’s a deck cabin up on C deck, I believe. You might move into that⁠—just for the night, anyway.”</p>
			<p>The smell really was pretty bad⁠—quite nauseating. I told the stewardess I would think over the question of moving whilst I dressed. I hurried over my toilet, sniffing distastefully as I did so.</p>
			<p>What <em>was</em> the smell? Dead rat? No, worse than that⁠—and quite different. Yet I knew it! It was something I had smelt before. Something⁠—Ah! I had got it. Asafoetida! I had worked in a hospital dispensary during the war for a short time and had become acquainted with various nauseous drugs.</p>
			<p>Asafoetida, that was it. But how⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>I sank down on the sofa, suddenly realizing the thing. Somebody had put a pinch of asafoetida in my cabin. Why? So that I should vacate it? Why were they so anxious to get me out? I thought of the scene this afternoon from a rather different point of view. What was there about cabin 17 that made so many people anxious to get hold of it? The other two cabins were better cabins, why had both men insisted on sticking to 17?</p>
			<p>17. How the number persisted. It was on the 17th I had sailed from Southampton. It was a 17⁠—I stopped with a sudden gasp. Quickly I unlocked my suitcase, and took my precious paper from its place of concealment in some rolled stockings.</p>
			<p>17 1 22⁠—I had taken that for a date, the date of departure of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Kilmorden Castle</i>. Supposing I was wrong. When I came to think of it, would anyone, writing down a date, think it necessary to put the year as well as the month? Supposing 17 meant <em>cabin</em> 17? And 1? The time⁠—one o’clock. Then 22 must be the date. I looked up at my little almanac.</p>
			<p>Tomorrow was the 22nd!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
